Nova janela aberta em um iFrame. Utilize as setas do teclado para navegar no conteúdo ou tab para navegar entre os títulos. Pressione Esc para sair desta janela. Edson Prestes e Silva Júnior Edson Prestes is Full Professor at Institute of Informatics of the Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. He is leader of the Phi Robotics Research Group and CNPq Research Fellow. He received his BSc in Computer Science from the Federal University of Pará (1996), Amazon, Brazil, and MSc (1999) and PhD (2003) in Computer Science from Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. Edson is Senior Member of the IEEE Robotics and Automation Society (IEEE RAS) and IEEE Standards Association (IEEE SA); and Member of Association for Computing Machinery (ACM). Throughout his career, Edson has worked on several initiatives related to Standardization, Robotics, Artificial Intelligence, Ethics of Artificial Intelligence and Human Rights in Academia, Industry, International and Multilateral Organizations. As examples, Edson is Member of the Global Commission on Responsible Artificial Intelligence in the Military Domain; South America Ambassador at IEEE TechEthics; Chair of the IEEE RAS/SA 7007 - Ontologies for Ethically Driven Robotics and Automation Systems Working Group; Vice-Chair of the IEEE RAS/SA Ontologies for Robotics and Automation Working Group; Member of the ACM Global Technology Policy Council; Former Member of the United Nations Secretary-Generals High-level Panel on Digital Cooperation; Former Member of the UNESCO Ad Hoc Expert Group (AHEG) for the Recommendation on the Ethics of Artificial Intelligence and Former Member of the Global Future Council on the Future of Artificial Intelligence and of the G20 Digital Agenda Working Group at World Economic Forum;.Additional information can be found at www.inf.ufrgs.br/~prestes/ or https://www.linkedin.com/in/edson-prestes/. Certificado pelo autor em
							19/05/2026. No CNPq Currículo Lattes Diretório de grupos de pesquisa Indicadores da Produção