Nova janela aberta em um iFrame. Utilize as setas do teclado para navegar no conteúdo ou tab para navegar entre os títulos. Pressione Esc para sair desta janela. Maria Andréia Formico Rodrigues Andreia Formico has been a Full Professor at the University of Fortaleza (PPGIA and CCT), Brazil, since 2002. Between 2017 and 2018, she was a CAPES Visiting Research Scholar at Carnegie Mellon University (CMU), USA. She earned her Ph.D. from Imperial College London, UK, and currently teaches Computer Graphics, Computer Animation, and Digital Games. Throughout her career, she has held several leadership roles, including General Chair and Program Co-Chair for SIBGRAPI, South America's premier forum for research in Computer Graphics, Patterns, and Images. She also served as Program Chair for the Brazilian Symposium on Computer Games and Digital Entertainment (SBGames 2015) and Co-Chair of the 19th Symposium on Virtual and Augmented Reality Graduate Workshop (WTD SVR 2017). From 2017 to 2018, she was a member of the five-person Steering Committee of CEJOGOS. Formico has actively contributed to numerous conferences, such as serving as a Program Committee member for the IEEE International Conference on Serious Games and Applications for Health (SeGAH), High Performance Graphics (HPG 2022), and the CSBC/SBC Concurso de Teses e Dissertações. Her editorial experience includes being an Invited Editor for the Elsevier Entertainment Computing Journal in 2019 and an Associate Editor for the ACM Computers in Entertainment Journal from 2012 to 2018. From 2020-2024, she has been President of CEJOGOS, a Steering Committee on Games of the Brazilian Computer Society (SBC). From 2019 to 2023, she was the Managing Guest Editor for special issues of the Elsevier Entertainment Computing Journal, and from 2022 to 2023, she served as Co-Guest Editor for the Elsevier Graphical Models Journal. Currently, she is a Senior Editor of the SBC JBCS (Journal of the Brazilian Computer Society), and one of the five-person Steering Committee of CEJOGOS. She also serves on the Program Committees of both international and national conferences, including the ACM SIGGRAPH Conference on Motion, Interaction, and Games (MIG24), IEEE International Conference on Serious Games and Applications for Health (SeGAH24), IFIP International Conference on Entertainment Computing (ICEC24), Foundations of Applied Software Engineering for Games (ACM FSE/FaSE4Games24), Simpósio de Realidade Virtual e Aumentada (SVR24), and Simpósio Brasileiro de Jogos e Entretenimento Digital (SBGames24). In 2025, she served as Co-Chair of the IFIP ICEC Workshop, SIBGRAPI Workshop of Theses and DIssertations (WTD25), SBGames25, SVR25, and as a PC member of the IEEE SeGAH25, among others. She served as a consultant member of the CAPES Quadrennial Evaluation Committee (20212024). In 2026, she will serve as a Keynote Speaker at SECOMP, held at the State University of Ceará (Fortaleza, Brazil), and at SBGames (Goiânia, Brazil). Andreia Formico is the Coordinator of the GIRA Lab (Laboratory of Games, Interaction, and Virtual Reality) at the University of Fortaleza. More details about GIRA Lab can be found at: https://www.unifor.br/web/pesquisa-inovacao/giralab Her research interests span computer games, real-time computer graphics, collision detection and physics simulations, motion capture, simulating emotions in 3D characters, interactive narratives, virtual reality, computer vision, deep learning, and user experience. Short CV (English version): https://sites.google.com/site/andreiaformico/ ResearchGate: https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Maria_Andreia_Rodrigues Certificado pelo autor em
							08/05/2026. No CNPq Currículo Lattes Indicadores da Produção Em outras bases Scopus ORCID