Nova janela aberta em um iFrame. Utilize as setas do teclado para navegar no conteúdo ou tab para navegar entre os títulos. Pressione Esc para sair desta janela. Genaina Nunes Rodrigues Genaina Rodrigues is an associate professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Brasília since 2009. She received her Ph.D. in Computer Science from University College London in 2008. Previously, she obtained her bachelor degree in Computer Science from the University of Brasília in 1999 and her Master's Degree inComputer Science from the Federal University of Pernambuco in 2002. Her research interests are mostly in self-adaptive cyber physical systems including the mutual collaboration in the synthesis of adaptation strategies following control-theoretical principles through formal verification and AI and their interplay with goal-oriented requirements engineering. In 2013, she co-organized the premier Brazilian Software Engineering Congress (CBSoft) of the Brazilian Computer Society (SBC). In 2020, she was awarded a fellowship as an experienced researcher through CAPES/Alexander von Humboldt Program to conduct research at the Humboldt Universität zu Berlin with Prof. Lars Grunske and PhD Dr. Thomas Vogel. She has been awarded in various key venues in Software Engineering. In 2024 she was awarded distinguished paper award at the prestigious ACM/IEEE International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE) and with the best paper award at the ACM/IEEE International Conference on Software Engineering for Adaptive and Self-Managing Systems (SEAMS). In 2019 she was awarded the Most Influential Paper at the SBC Brazilian Symposium on Components, Architecture and Reuse (SBCARS). Throughout her career, she has (co-)supervised over 12 master dissertations and 5 PhD thesis. And she has served at national and international program committees such as the ACM/IEEE International Conference on Software Engineering for Adaptive and Self-Managing Systems (SEAMS), ACM Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering (FSE), IEEE International Conference on Software Architecture (ICSA), Brazilian Symposium on Software Engineering (SBES), Brazilian Symposium on Components, Architecture and Reuse (SBCARS) and as reviewer of international world class journals such as IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering (TSE), The Journal of Systems and Software (JSS), Information and Software Technology (IST) to mention a few. Certificado pelo autor em
							27/04/2026. No CNPq Currículo Lattes Diretório de grupos de pesquisa Indicadores da Produção Em outras bases ResearcherID ORCID